Caption: hello everyone and welcome to bye bye
Caption: yaml
Caption: painless kubernetes deployments with
Caption: cdks
Caption: my name is cameron trantham fryer
Caption: big thanks to our amazing sponsors we
Caption: could not have done today without you
Caption: we wish to acknowledge the traditional
Caption: custodians of the land we are meeting on
Caption: the wajak people
Caption: we wish to acknowledge and respect their
Caption: continuing culture
Caption: and the contribution they make to the
Caption: life of this city and this region
Caption: so a little bit about me yes i was a
Caption: chartered accountant but i'm lazy i
Caption: wanted to automate things
Caption: the profession had other ideas so we had
Caption: to part ways
Caption: then i found out about this amazing job
Caption: called devops engineer where i'd have
Caption: the opportunity to automate all the
Caption: things
Caption: so spreadsheets were my gateway drug and
Caption: now i'm hooked on aws cdk with
Caption: typescript
Caption: so i've been working with aws for about
Caption: two years now and it is my preferred
Caption: platform
Caption: during this time i gained a deep
Caption: understanding of cdk and many aws
Caption: services
Caption: and i've been able to use this knowledge
Caption: to build complex applications with much
Caption: less effort than what would have been
Caption: required without cdk
Caption: i recently completed the aws associate
Caption: developer certification and i highly
Caption: recommend
Caption: aws certifications for anyone looking to
Caption: turbo charge their career
Caption: i'm currently working in a devops
Caption: engineer role at inx software
Caption: where we build tools to help clients in
Caption: high risk industries such as the mining
Caption: industry
Caption: to manage their workforce and operations
Caption: and i'm working on a really interesting
Caption: application modernization project
Caption: so let's just look at some of the terms
Caption: in the talk today
Caption: so
Caption: kubernetes or cates as it is often
Caption: referred to
Caption: is an open source platform for managing
Caption: containerized workloads
Caption: it traces its lineage back to google's
Caption: famous cluster management tool called
Caption: borg
Caption: which has been used to run google
Caption: services like search and gmail since the
Caption: mid-2000s
Caption: just a warning this talk assumes some
Caption: basic kubernetes kubernetes
Caption: knowledge
Caption: so if you have not used kubernetes
Caption: before you might get a bit lost about
Caption: halfway through this talk
Caption: so cdk
Caption: or cloud development kit
Caption: is a tool that allows us to model aws
Caption: resources using familiar programming
Caption: languages
Caption: and it compiles down to yaml mostly
Caption: cdks
Caption: or cdkas is a tool that allows us to
Caption: manage our kubernetes workloads using
Caption: familiar programming languages
Caption: and it also compiles down to yaml
Caption: and the great thing about cdks is that
Caption: the yaml produced can run anywhere it
Caption: can run on azure google cloud
Caption: or even your own self-hosted kubernetes
Caption: and the example that we're going to look
Caption: at later is my home automation project
Caption: which runs k3s on a raspberry pi
Caption: k3s is a lightweight kubernetes
Caption: distribution with a number of
Caption: optimizations such as using sql lite
Caption: instead of scd
Caption: and this makes it ideal for kubernetes
Caption: at the edge of cheap hardware
Caption: so let's have a look at the agenda today
Caption: first of all we're going to take a look
Caption: at yaml we're going to consider both
Caption: some good things and some not so good
Caption: things about it
Caption: we'll look at some specific grievances
Caption: that kubernetes users have with yaml and
Caption: how these can be overcome using popular
Caption: programming languages
Caption: with cdks
Caption: we'll compare the release process for
Caption: infrastructure as code to that for
Caption: traditional software applications
Caption: and we'll consider why yaml makes sense
Caption: as a release artifact
Caption: finally we have the serverless
Caption: kubernetes demo using aws eks
Caption: and the serverless compute engine aws
Caption: fargate
Caption: so i'd like to tell you a little bit
Caption: about the idea for this talk so
Caption: earlier this year i've been working
Caption: closely with an aws solutions architect
Caption: to programmatically generate docker
Caption: compose configuration using aws lambda
Caption: and this was to deploy a container stack
Caption: to servers that were moving targets and
Caption: had intermittent network connectivity
Caption: i'd since taken this pattern and
Caption: extended it to generate kubernetes
Caption: manifests for a home automation project
Caption: so i put my sales pitch together
Caption: submitted it and then forgot about it
Caption: a few months passed
Caption: and then to my surprise
Caption: they contacted me and said you guys want
Caption: to hear what i have to say about yaml
Caption: so i took a look at what i'd submitted
Caption: bye bye yaml
Caption: sounds a bit creepy doesn't it
Caption: why what's wrong with the apple
Caption: firstly what is yaml
Caption: yaml a markup language
Caption: here's a small sample of yaml for those
Caption: playing at home
Caption: yaml is a data serialization language
Caption: designed to be human friendly
Caption: and to work well with modern programming
Caption: languages for common everyday tasks
Caption: so it's kind of like jason then
Caption: but using white space instead of curly
Caption: braces
Caption: and with comments
Caption: think of jason as the lowest common
Caption: denominator with a minimal feature set
Caption: yaml is a superset with additional
Caption: features such as better readability for
Caption: humans
Caption: every json file is also a valid yaml
Caption: file and this simplifies adoption
Caption: so in this example here one of yaml's
Caption: additional features is references and
Caption: one of the downsides of this is that a
Caption: malicious user
Caption: using recursion
Caption: could craft a yaml file which behaves
Caption: like a zip bomb
Caption: and upon deserialization will crash the
Caption: kube api server
Caption: and there's been several cbes similar to
Caption: this that have already been patched
Caption: so because of these extra features yaml
Caption: is not regarded as a pure data structure
Caption: representation
Caption: as it has some additional features
Caption: if you want a pure data structure
Caption: representation i suggest taking a look
Caption: at tomml
Caption: tom's obvious markup language
Caption: you may have encountered this if you're
Caption: interested in open source software where
Caption: it is often used for configuration files
Caption: so what's good about yaml then
Caption: when data is easy to view and understand
Caption: programming becomes a simpler task
Caption: it's a popular format for configuration
Caption: files log files
Caption: and declarative manifests such as
Caption: kubernetes and aws cloud formation
Caption: it provides a well-defined interface
Caption: between humans and machines and between
Caption: machines and other machines
Caption: so a few years ago bc before covert we
Caption: were visiting family in northern
Caption: thailand
Caption: and i was contacted by a colleague at
Caption: work who notified me they were having
Caption: some problems with the kubernetes
Caption: cluster
Caption: i simply asked him to run a few
Caption: kubernetes cli commands with the flag
Caption: dash dash output yaml
Caption: and he was able to send me yaml
Caption: that communicated to me the state of the
Caption: kubernetes cluster at that point in time
Caption: i was easily able to diagnose the error
Caption: change the yaml and send it back to him
Caption: and once he loaded that yaml back into
Caption: the system it became operational again
Caption: and resolved the problem
Caption: so why do i hear people complaining
Caption: about yaml all the time then
Caption: syntactic white space killed me
Caption: any python devs out there
Caption: well we know we can overcome this
Caption: problem with better tooling such as
Caption: plugins for your ide
Caption: i don't know a single engineer who
Caption: enjoys writing yaml
Caption: does anybody actually enjoy writing yaml
Caption: what we're talking about here is
Caption: developer fatigue and frustration
Caption: i mean how do you test yaml
Caption: how do you get assurance that when you
Caption: deploy it does what you want
Caption: well its infrastructure is code so
Caption: that's good right
Caption: well is it deployed from a pipeline or
Caption: from a magic laptop with hidden
Caption: dependencies
Caption: a yaml error
Caption: a yaml type error broke my deployment
Caption: so let's take a little bit of time to
Caption: talk about yaml
Caption: and type conversions
Caption: given this section of yaml here
Caption: what would you expect the result to be
Caption: upon d serialization
Caption: australia a u
Caption: new zealand
Caption: nz
Caption: norway
Caption: false
Caption: we now have a mixed list
Caption: as no was interpreted as false
Caption: this is known as the norway problem
Caption: yaml is very liberal when doing type
Caption: conversions and this leads to many
Caption: errors
Caption: so let's look at some of the kubernetes
Caption: specific grievances with yaml
Caption: a lot of people complain
Caption: that kubernetes yaml is too verbose and
Caption: i mean that's fair enough it's designed
Caption: for communication
Caption: from machine to machine and then you've
Caption: got that whole drama with syncing labels
Caption: across deployment services pods etc
Caption: another problem is delayed errors
Caption: like the norway problem which we spoke
Caption: about in the previous slide
Caption: often this is not detected until the
Caption: pipeline fails
Caption: and this wastes everyone's time
Caption: people often complain
Caption: that kubernetes has too many features
Caption: so let's just compare that to microsoft
Caption: word microsoft word is a complex piece
Caption: of software
Caption: but this complexity is hidden from
Caption: novice users
Caption: with kubernetes all this complexity is
Caption: in your face and new users particularly
Caption: find this daunting
Caption: the demo will show you how cdks
Caption: addresses these issues specifically
Caption: so one of the main advantages of yaml is
Caption: that it is excellent for declaring the
Caption: state of things and that's why it's used
Caption: for cloud formation and kubernetes
Caption: manifests
Caption: it facilitates clearly defined
Caption: interfaces between humans and machines
Caption: and between machines and other machines
Caption: humans are happy to read it but they
Caption: don't like to write it
Caption: so similar to when we visit family in
Caption: northern thailand
Caption: all of the conversation is in the thai
Caption: language
Caption: i can understand about one third to one
Caption: half of the words and then i can figure
Caption: out the rest
Caption: but when i try to respond i really
Caption: struggle to compose sentences
Caption: this is the problem humans have with
Caption: yaml it is easy to read and to make
Caption: small updates
Caption: but try writing a kubernetes manifest
Caption: without any reference material handy
Caption: you're going to have a bad time
Caption: we can overcome this problem by
Caption: generating yaml programmatically with
Caption: cdk for aws cloud formation and cdks for
Caption: kubernetes
Caption: so let's take a look at some of the
Caption: advantages of generating yaml with
Caption: popular programming languages
Caption: first of all
Caption: they're familiar to developers
Caption: so that means we can use conditional
Caption: logic loops and other language features
Caption: we can use the testing tools we know and
Caption: love
Caption: both cdks and cdk support snapshot
Caption: testing and cdk supports fine-grained
Caption: assertion testing
Caption: we can use the package managers
Caption: we love like using npm instead of helm
Caption: libraries are easier to update maintain
Caption: and share than templates
Caption: and we can use the ides and plugins and
Caption: the linting and code analysis tools that
Caption: we know
Caption: so dynamic versus static
Caption: templates are static
Caption: whereas programming languages are
Caption: dynamic
Caption: we can retrieve environment variables
Caption: from aws systems manager parameter store
Caption: or a container version from aws ecr at
Caption: compile time and save this into the
Caption: manifest
Caption: or we could read a file from the file
Caption: system and save this into a configmap to
Caption: be mounted into a pod later
Caption: we can also use abstractions
Caption: this allows us to turn best practices
Caption: into code libraries
Caption: and also the drive principle don't
Caption: repeat yourself
Caption: if you need to provision 10 of something
Caption: such as like a vbc with a database maybe
Caption: some ec2 instances
Caption: we can create a construct and then we
Caption: can provision 10 of the construct
Caption: we can also test the con construct
Caption: so what can we do if the yaml isn't
Caption: right
Caption: let's take a look at this example here
Caption: cdk allows us to embed yaml into into
Caption: cdk
Caption: so in this scenario here
Caption: this workplace has already invested
Caption: heavily into the
Caption: cloudformation ecosystem and they want
Caption: to reuse some of their existing
Caption: templates
Caption: so this user here has a template called
Caption: mytemplate.yaml
Caption: and they can import that directly into
Caption: cdk
Caption: there's also escape hatches
Caption: an escape hatch is an intentional leak
Caption: in the abstraction layer
Caption: it allows users to escape the
Caption: abstraction and reach out to a lower
Caption: layer
Caption: in this example here
Caption: i found that aws code build didn't do a
Caption: full git clone by default which is a
Caption: problem if you want to use any git
Caption: commands in your build
Caption: cloud formation supported the feature
Caption: but it was not yet supported in cdk
Caption: using this code here i was able to
Caption: override the yaml generated by the cdk
Caption: to get the cloud formation yaml right
Caption: city cates also has escape hatches
Caption: we also have the option of using cloud
Caption: formation custom resources
Caption: and a cloud formation custom resource is
Caption: a lambda function that supports create
Caption: read update delete and list operations
Caption: it's commonly used when a feature is
Caption: supported in the aws sdk but not yet in
Caption: cloud formation
Caption: this is also very useful when using
Caption: non-aws resources
Caption: i often hear people say
Caption: i want to use cloudflare dns during the
Caption: deployment
Caption: so that means i have to wrap the entire
Caption: thing in terraform right
Caption: well you can write a cloud formation
Caption: custom resource that updates your dns
Caption: and that is invoked by cdk
Caption: cdk also provides some very easy
Caption: abstractions for packaging and deploying
Caption: lambda functions
Caption: which makes it very easy to write your
Caption: own custom resources
Caption: i have one on my github that i wrote for
Caption: generating certificates to use with aws
Caption: iot
Caption: a little fun fact for you guys whilst
Caption: researching this talk i wondered to
Caption: myself what portion of cdk compiles down
Caption: to yaml
Caption: and what portion uses custom resources
Caption: i don't have an exact answer for you but
Caption: i can report
Caption: that the type of the total 192 cdk
Caption: libraries 10 use cloudformation custom
Caption: resources in some way
Caption: although yaml is still used
Caption: predominantly
Caption: so what are the release artifacts
Caption: in yaml
Caption: when using kubernetes manifest or aws
Caption: cloud information
Caption: it's not just infrastructure as code
Caption: it's also networkers code
Caption: policy is code
Caption: configuration is code
Caption: even security is code
Caption: all of the things is code
Caption: let's take a little look at the release
Caption: process
Caption: it makes sense to use the same
Caption: source build test deploy and monitor
Caption: pattern
Caption: that we use with our application code
Caption: so this little example here is in
Caption: relation to my home automation project
Caption: so the source code is in git
Caption: merge to master triggers aws code
Caption: pipeline using version 2 of the github
Caption: source action
Caption: build and test stages happen in aws code
Caption: build
Caption: then a zip file containing the manifest
Caption: and the app spec file are uploaded to s3
Caption: and a deployment is created
Caption: so all i had to do was install the aws
Caption: code deploy agent and k3s on my
Caption: raspberry pi 4
Caption: and one of the things i love about k3s
Caption: is that it has a watch folder
Caption: so any file found in the folder var lib
Caption: rancher k3s server manifests
Caption: will be automatically deployed to
Caption: kubernetes
Caption: so i configured my app spec file
Caption: to instruct code deploy agent to copy
Caption: the manifest into the k3s watch folder
Caption: so that any point in time the kubernetes
Caption: state reflects the source code in github
Caption: this has the advantages of
Caption: allowing me to view the entire
Caption: configuration at any time by simply
Caption: viewing the code repo and not needing to
Caption: log into a server
Caption: to easily make changes to the
Caption: configuration through prs or in my case
Caption: just
Caption: committing to master
Caption: we can provision additional devices for
Caption: friends and relatives
Caption: and of course we can recover from
Caption: failure as raspberry pi's are
Caption: notoriously unreliable
Caption: and reinstallation is simply reinstall
Caption: the operating system to the sd card
Caption: install k3s which is a single bash
Caption: command and then install the aws code
Caption: deploy agent and run a deployment
Caption: so we also i also monitor this using aws
Caption: cloudwatch which we have there at the
Caption: bottom
Caption: extracting logs and metrics
Caption: let's take a little look at containers
Caption: on aws
Caption: we have two control planes to choose
Caption: from
Caption: which are really just container
Caption: orchestrators
Caption: the first is ecs or the elastic
Caption: container service
Caption: with ecs you don't need to pay for the
Caption: control plane
Caption: and it can be thought of similar to
Caption: docker compose
Caption: actually last year a feature was added
Caption: to the docker-composed cli
Caption: allowing applications to be deployed to
Caption: ecs by converting the docker compose
Caption: configuration to cloud information
Caption: transparently
Caption: and then deploying that to aws
Caption: the second option is eks or elastic
Caption: kubernetes service
Caption: on top of the cost of your workloads you
Caption: will also pay for the control plane
Caption: which is us 10 cents per hour
Caption: and this works out at about a hundred
Caption: dollars if you leave it deployed for an
Caption: entire month
Caption: so if you try my demo please make sure
Caption: that you first set a billing alert so
Caption: that you don't get a nasty surprise with
Caption: your aws spill
Caption: both control planes have access to two
Caption: options for deploying the workloads
Caption: the first is to deploy containers to
Caption: managed ec2 instances as worker nodes or
Caption: the second option is to use the
Caption: serverless compute engine fargate
Caption: where you don't have to worry about the
Caption: underlying infrastructure and you pay
Caption: only for the resource consumed such as
Caption: vcpu and memory
Caption: my experience of using kubernetes is
Caption: that i have often been disappointed
Caption: with the poor utilization of the compute
Caption: resources and i've never been able to
Caption: reach the level of application density
Caption: and cost savings i was hoping for and i
Caption: always end up paying for idle capacity
Caption: there's also
Caption: a significant maintenance burden that
Caption: comes with maintaining infrastructure
Caption: there are workloads that are better
Caption: suited to ec2 instance instances though
Caption: but for many use cases the serverless
Caption: option is the best
Caption: okay that was unusual should we where do
Caption: we want to take it from
Caption: sure
Caption: so
Caption: okay so we'll go from control planes
Caption: so both control plane options have
Caption: access to two options for deploying
Caption: workloads the first option is to deploy
Caption: containers to managed ec2 instances
Caption: as worker nodes
Caption: and the second option is to use the
Caption: serverless compute engine aws fargate
Caption: where you don't have to worry about the
Caption: underlying infrastructure and you pay
Caption: only for what you use
Caption: which is the vcpu and memory usage
Caption: my experience of using kubernetes is
Caption: that i have often been disappointed with
Caption: the poor utilization of the compute
Caption: resources and i've never been able to
Caption: reach the level of application density
Caption: and cost savings i was hoping for
Caption: and i always end up paying for idle
Caption: capacity
Caption: also maintaining infrastructure results
Caption: in a significant maintenance burden
Caption: there are some workloads that are better
Caption: suited to ec2 workers
Caption: however for many use cases the
Caption: serverless option is the best option
Caption: even though it is more expensive per
Caption: unit of compute or memory resource
Caption: okay so let's have a look at the demo
Caption: architecture today so
Caption: the first git repo that we're going to
Caption: be looking at today which is the cdk1
Caption: this deploys our aws control plane
Caption: our eks control plane
Caption: and configures the control plane to use
Caption: fargate
Caption: workers which are the serverless ones i
Caption: spoke about previously
Caption: so when we first deploy the cluster we
Caption: get two pods for core dns because you
Caption: can't do much kubernetes without dns
Caption: and we also spin up the aws load
Caption: balancer controller
Caption: so the second
Caption: code repo we're looking at today is the
Caption: cd cates repo
Caption: which generates our manifest for the
Caption: hello kubernetes app
Caption: so when we use the kubernetes cli to
Caption: deploy the hello kubernetes app
Caption: we deploy
Caption: a deployment which launches our pods
Caption: we deploy a service which directs the
Caption: traffic to the pod
Caption: and we deploy the ingress
Caption: and the ingress instructs the load
Caption: balancer controller
Caption: to spin up an aws application load
Caption: balancer
Caption: and the application load balancer
Caption: receives incoming traffic
Caption: and directs that to the hello kubernetes
Caption: pod
Caption: so some advantages of using this
Caption: architecture is that using the
Caption: the application load balancer which is
Caption: the newest and most advanced load
Caption: balancer from aws
Caption: we don't have to use an nginx ingress
Caption: you may have used this before if you've
Caption: if you've used aws with the classic load
Caption: balancer
Caption: or if you've used load balancers with
Caption: other cloud providers
Caption: so using fargate provides better
Caption: isolation
Caption: as each pod is scheduled on its own node
Caption: and does not share the underlying kernel
Caption: cpu resources memory resources or
Caption: elastic network interface with any other
Caption: pod
Caption: some of the advantages of this
Caption: architecture the disadvantages of this
Caption: architecture
Caption: are that the alb ingress controller
Caption: spins up a separate alb for each ingress
Caption: and this can get expensive
Caption: there's no support for stateful
Caption: workloads that require persistent
Caption: volumes when you use fargate
Caption: so it's not so great for running
Caption: databases but there are other services
Caption: for that such as aws rds and aurora
Caption: with fargate there's a 4 v cpu and 30
Caption: gigabyte memory per pod hard limit
Caption: and diamond sets and privileged pods are
Caption: not supported
Caption: there's no support for gpus
Caption: and pods are not scheduled immediately
Caption: you'll have to wait around a minute for
Caption: a pod to be scheduled on a far gate node
Caption: okay demo time
Caption: okay so the first code repo that we're
Caption: looking at
Caption: is
Caption: ddd demo
Caption: cdk eks fargate and i'll be providing
Caption: this information at the end
Caption: so let me take you through what we're
Caption: provisioning here with cdk
Caption: so the first step that we're using here
Caption: is to create the cluster
Caption: and this is a fairly complex abstraction
Caption: here
Caption: there's a lot going on
Caption: we create the cluster
Caption: we specify what kubernetes version we're
Caption: using and then we also configure the
Caption: default profile for the fargate workers
Caption: so
Caption: one advantage of using programming
Caption: languages to generate this kind of
Caption: configuration
Caption: is that we can only enter values that we
Caption: know are supported
Caption: so when it comes to kubernetes version
Caption: i can select this here
Caption: i can let the auto complete showing me
Caption: which versions are supported and so i
Caption: don't need to worry that i'm going to
Caption: incorrectly configure this
Caption: we also have the option of using the
Caption: language features
Caption: so
Caption: when configuring the default profile
Caption: here
Caption: it accepts an array of objects with a
Caption: single property which is namespace
Caption: now writing that out would be fairly
Caption: verbose and quite annoying
Caption: but using the map feature of the
Caption: javascript language we can simply put
Caption: all of the namespaces into an array
Caption: and the function will generate the
Caption: structure for us
Caption: so
Caption: this is a fairly complex abstraction
Caption: here
Caption: an extremely powerful abstraction
Caption: but it's reassuring for me as an aws
Caption: customer that i can deploy such a
Caption: complex architecture so simply and if
Caption: i'm a premium customer i have the option
Caption: of using aws support as everything is
Caption: supported from cdk through to cloud
Caption: formation to the resources actually
Caption: deployed
Caption: i also have a wealth of local networking
Caption: resources such as the aws solutions
Caption: architects
Caption: that i can ask for help
Caption: and there's also online communities i
Caption: can go to for help such as the cdk
Caption: project on github if i want to raise an
Caption: issue
Caption: so let's look at what we can do with
Caption: this cluster object that we've created
Caption: here
Caption: so
Caption: we can access the properties of the
Caption: cluster so as you can see here we can
Caption: access the vpc id
Caption: and the vpc cider block
Caption: so if you wanted to add additional
Caption: resources to the vpc like a database or
Caption: an ec2 instance or something like that
Caption: it's very easy to do or perhaps you
Caption: wanted to add a security group to the
Caption: vpc
Caption: there's also some helper methods here
Caption: so the first is to add node group
Caption: capacity
Caption: so
Caption: we're using fargate here but if we
Caption: wanted to deploy a static ec2 worker
Caption: node we can do that with this function
Caption: here
Caption: we also have the option of adding an
Caption: auto scaling group
Caption: and an auto scaling group will scale up
Caption: and down as capacity is required
Caption: and an interesting feature with the auto
Caption: scaling group is it has the option of
Caption: using spot instances
Caption: spot instances give aws the customers
Caption: the opportunity to consume unused aws
Caption: compute capacity at very low prices
Caption: we also have the option to add manifests
Caption: and helm charts to the cluster
Caption: now i find
Caption: deploying these types of resources to
Caption: the cluster
Caption: at the time that i deployed the cluster
Caption: is useful mainly for
Caption: things like loggers and controllers and
Caption: sidecar injectors and that kind of thing
Caption: but i prefer to have a different
Caption: deployment pattern for my workloads
Caption: and finally
Caption: this abstraction here gives us the
Caption: option to actually deploy cdk's charts
Caption: directly to the cluster
Caption: so in this example today
Caption: the cdks code is in a separate repo
Caption: because we're going to be using it to
Caption: generate the yaml and then we're going
Caption: to apply that yaml to the cluster using
Caption: the kubernetes cli
Caption: but if you wanted to have it all in the
Caption: one repo and have
Caption: have everything deployed in one go
Caption: that's easy to do using this abstraction
Caption: next we have another abstraction here
Caption: which deploys the alb controller that i
Caption: spoke about previously
Caption: and this is a fairly complex abstraction
Caption: as configuration is required both at the
Caption: aws control plane level for things like
Caption: creating iam roles
Caption: and also at the kubernetes control plane
Caption: level to deploy the controller
Caption: but this
Caption: this abstraction handles that low level
Caption: complexity for you
Caption: so let's look at tests
Caption: if we click the test file here
Caption: we see that there's two types of tests
Caption: so
Caption: here we have the snapshot test
Caption: and snapshot tests are really useful for
Caption: preventing regression during refactoring
Caption: we can
Caption: refactor our code and then by running
Caption: the test
Caption: we find out whether that code generates
Caption: the same yaml
Caption: and with cdk we also have the option of
Caption: testing fine grained assertions
Caption: and that's this test here
Caption: where we're saying we expect that the
Caption: stack is not going to have an s3 bucket
Caption: now we can actually test a lot more
Caption: complex assertions than that so we can
Caption: test the properties of the s3 bucket but
Caption: this is just a basic example here
Caption: so fine grain assertion testings are
Caption: really useful when you have a well
Caption: written spec
Caption: as it is very easy to tran translate
Caption: this into a test
Caption: and then it is easy to write the cdk
Caption: that passes the test
Caption: these tests provide a reference point
Caption: for non-technical users wanting to
Caption: understand how the system works
Caption: and for developers working on the
Caption: project for the first time
Caption: knowing that what you are deploying is
Caption: the right thing before commencing the
Caption: deployment will save you a lot of time
Caption: and save your employer money by not
Caption: deploying infrastructure that does not
Caption: deliver any business value
Caption: so
Caption: once we've written our cdk here
Caption: the next step would be to run yarn
Caption: deploy
Caption: and it takes about 25 minutes to spin up
Caption: this stack
Caption: and
Caption: when that is complete
Caption: it prints out some properties of the
Caption: stack
Caption: and that includes an aws cli command
Caption: that you can run
Caption: to import
Caption: the access credentials for the stack
Caption: which will then allow you to access the
Caption: stack remotely
Caption: and we'll come back to that in the demo
Caption: so let's take a look at the second code
Caption: repo
Caption: which is the cdks repo
Caption: so we're going to start on the file
Caption: called cdks.yaml
Caption: this is how we configure cdks
Caption: this is a very simple example here
Caption: and you can see that
Caption: we're configuring cdks to use version
Caption: 1.20 of cdk
Caption: so
Caption: once we've done this we run the command
Caption: yarn import
Caption: and cdks will create typescript classes
Caption: for all kubernetes objects
Caption: for instance deployments services etc
Caption: now if you have custom resource
Caption: definitions
Caption: you can also import them here too
Caption: and cdkates will create typescript
Caption: classes for your custom resource
Caption: definitions
Caption: so let's look at the cdks code itself
Caption: so
Caption: a common kubernetes application
Caption: will have
Caption: the deployment which deploys your pods
Caption: it'll have a service which directs
Caption: traffic to the pods
Caption: and you'll have an ingress
Caption: which allows external users to access
Caption: the resource
Caption: so let's look at those configurations
Caption: here
Caption: first of all we have the service
Caption: and one really great thing about cdkates
Caption: is we can hover over the service here
Caption: and we can see that this object here
Caption: defines
Caption: an api object
Caption: of this type here
Caption: so one of the frustrations of kubernetes
Caption: is getting all this stuff correct
Caption: so because we're using cdks and we told
Caption: it that we're using version 1.20 of
Caption: kubernetes
Caption: it ensures that we get all these
Caption: annotations right and we don't have to
Caption: worry about configuring them
Caption: manually with the service
Caption: if we define it of type node port
Caption: so if you've used kubernetes elsewhere
Caption: you might be used to the load balancer
Caption: type of service
Caption: this is what i've commonly seen before
Caption: and it took a little while for me to
Caption: understand here that because we're using
Caption: the application load balancer
Caption: we actually need to open the port on the
Caption: node or on the far gate pod itself
Caption: because the application load balancer is
Caption: going to direct the traffic directly to
Caption: the pod
Caption: so after we've created the service we
Caption: could create the ingress
Caption: and as you can see the ingress has these
Caption: three annotations here
Caption: and these annotations
Caption: configure the ingress to communicate
Caption: with the load balancer controller so
Caption: that the load balancer knows it needs to
Caption: spin up a load balancer
Caption: the actual configuration here is there's
Caption: a lot of boilerplate you can see we're
Caption: just using the route
Caption: and we're just mapping that service
Caption: the service that we defined up here
Caption: next we have our kube deployment
Caption: and so we we specify here that we want
Caption: two pods
Caption: and we want to run
Caption: the docker hub image
Caption: called hello kubernetes version 1.9
Caption: we configure the ports and we're passing
Caption: in a message here as an environment
Caption: variable
Caption: one thing to notice here is that a lot
Caption: of the complexity is hidden
Caption: so if we wanted to add additional
Caption: configuration for the container
Caption: we can simply add a new line
Caption: and then we can use autocomplete to see
Caption: all of the properties that that are
Caption: supported by that container
Caption: so i want to draw your attention to
Caption: the top of this page here
Caption: where we define the label
Caption: so one of the biggest grievances that
Caption: kubernetes users have is
Caption: keeping their labels in sync i know i've
Caption: lost countless hours on this task
Caption: by using cdks we simply define the label
Caption: once
Caption: and then we reference it where we want
Caption: to use it so we define that as the
Caption: selector for the service
Caption: and then again on the kube deployment
Caption: both at the selector section
Caption: and also in the template section
Caption: so you may notice here that
Caption: there's still quite a bit of boilerplate
Caption: here
Caption: so you might find that you're constantly
Caption: writing the same charts over and over
Caption: again
Caption: maybe you just want to change one
Caption: property such as the container name
Caption: cdkates supports these kinds of
Caption: abstractions and they're called
Caption: constructs
Caption: so if you were in that situation
Caption: you could simply publish this as a
Caption: construct and then you've got your
Caption: regression testing on that as well so
Caption: you you know that it hasn't changed
Caption: and then you can just consume that
Caption: construct as many times as you want
Caption: so let's so
Caption: after we've written our code here we
Caption: would run
Caption: yarn build
Caption: and that would build our code
Caption: and let's have a look at what that looks
Caption: like so this is the yaml that is output
Caption: here
Caption: as you can see we have our service of
Caption: type node port
Caption: we have our ingress with our annotations
Caption: and we have our deployment which is
Caption: going to run two containers
Caption: of the hello kubernetes app
Caption: so let's deploy this yaml to the cluster
Caption: now
Caption: and see how it works
Caption: okay so that'll be a stop
Caption: go back to
Caption: separate display
Caption: this is the video
Caption: oh so i'll just be talking
Caption: okay
Caption: so
Caption: we've run the command to configure oh
Caption: sorry is this recording again okay
Caption: okay
Caption: so here we go we've run the command
Caption: to configure the kubernetes cli
Caption: but today i'm going to be using this
Caption: fantastic desktop app called lens if you
Caption: haven't heard of it i suggest you check
Caption: it out
Caption: it gives you
Caption: all of if not most of
Caption: the functionality
Caption: of the kubernetes cli but in a desktop
Caption: app that's much easier to understand
Caption: so let's connect to our cluster
Caption: here we go we're connected
Caption: so let's look at nodes well let's look
Caption: at workloads first
Caption: so we change the namespace
Caption: to show all spaces
Caption: and we can see we have four pods
Caption: so we've got the two dns pods
Caption: and the two pods for the load balancer
Caption: controller
Caption: and then if we look at the nodes
Caption: we can see that fargate has provisioned
Caption: a separate worker node for each pod
Caption: and we can click those and we can see
Caption: that each node has two vcpus and four
Caption: gigabytes of memory
Caption: so let's add a demo namespace
Caption: we'll just do that manually using the
Caption: gui
Caption: and now we're going to deploy our
Caption: manifests into that namespace
Caption: okay so our resources have been created
Caption: so if we go to pods
Caption: we see that there are two pods that are
Caption: currently in a pending state
Caption: we go to nodes we've got four nodes
Caption: and another two have just popped up
Caption: let's take a look at our pods
Caption: still pending
Caption: here we go both pods are successfully
Caption: running now
Caption: so now if we go to the network section
Caption: in lens
Caption: go to ingress we can see the ingress
Caption: that the load balancer controller has
Caption: created for us
Caption: so we can copy the hostname of the load
Caption: balancer controller
Caption: paste that into safari
Caption: we can see our application
Caption: now if we hit refresh
Caption: you'll see that the pod name is changing
Caption: here and that's because we've got two
Caption: replicas
Caption: and the load balancer is directing the
Caption: traffic between the two different
Caption: replicas
Caption: so in this demo i showed you how much
Caption: easier it is to spin up a kubernetes
Caption: cluster on aws with cdk
Caption: and to deploy workloads with cdks
Caption: especially when compared to writing
Caption: cloud formation and kubernetes yaml
Caption: manually
Caption: this process addresses the problems that
Caption: with yaml that we learned about earlier
Caption: in the talk
Caption: the demo also gives you an understanding
Caption: of how kubernetes works on aws
Caption: in conjunction with the serverless
Caption: compute engine fargate
Caption: and the application load balancer
Caption: so if you are using aws but not cdk
Caption: or if you are using kubernetes with yaml
Caption: manifest
Caption: i hope you will go home and deploy my
Caption: code to try it for yourself
Caption: so here are the links to the code repos
Caption: i'd like to say a big thanks to all the
Caption: volunteers for making today possible